Abstract
Although aerobic glycolysis and the resulting lactic acidosis have been the general metabolic characteristics of malignant tumor cells, glycolysis can take place not only in tumor cells themselves but also in tumor stromal cells. Thus, lactic acid produced by tumor stromal cells can be utilized for the oxidative phosphorylation of nearby tumor cells. However, despite of the significant implication of lactate transport in oncogenesis, the tumor metabolism of lymphomas in terms of the well-known lactate transporters such as MCT1 (monocarboxylate transporter 1) and MCT4 as well as their chaperones CD147 have not been explored yet. Therefore, we comprehensively investigated the immunohistochemical expressions of CD147, MCT1 or MCT4 in a wide range of malignant lymphomas. This study disclosed that systemic ALK+ ALCL (anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma) showed diffuse and strong membranous expressions of MCT1 and MCT4 in all cases (11/11, 100%), implying the metabolic state of enhanced glycolysis. On the other hand, the tumor cells of other lymphoma types expressed MCT1 rather than MCT4 which is mostly confined to the non-neoplastic nearby cells, underscoring lactate shuttling as a basic metabolic phenotype. Meanwhile, CD147 was universally expressed in all types of lymphoma tumor cells. In conclusion, this study suggests that ALK+ ALCL is a metabolically unique lymphoma expressing both high levels of MCT4 and MCT1 in tumor cells, and therefore MCT4 can be exploited as a diagnostic or potential therapeutic marker for ALK+ ALCL. Future studies will need to discover the mechanism of MCT4 expression in ALK+ ALCL and to develop the selective MCT4 inhibitors.
